# IPSO CLI

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Remember, a few hours of trial and error can save you several minutes of looking at the README.</p>&mdash; I Am Devloper (@iamdevloper) <a href="https://twitter.com/iamdevloper/status/1060067235316809729?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 7, 2018</a></blockquote>

IPSO CLI is a command line interface used to run pipelines created with [IPSO Phen](https://github.com/tpmp-inra/ipso_phen) on images

## Getting Started

IPSO CLI is available on GitHub [at this link ](https://github.com/tpmp-inra/ipso_cli)

### Prerequisites

You need [Python](https://www.python.org/), at least version 3.6, installed on your computer.

### Installing

- Clone the repository at this address: https://github.com/tr31zh/ipso_cli
- Move into the created folder
- Create new environment: _python -m venv env_
- Activate environment: _source ./env/bin/activate_
- Clone environment: _pip install -r requirements.txt_

## Using

All command line arguments are optional, but, they must form a understandable blob.
Python environment must be activated or in path in order for the CLI to work.

### Using a stored state

--stored-state argument with a valid stored state (built in IPSO Phen) is enough to launch the CLI. This is the preferred way to use the CLI as it reduces the number of arguments.

**Example:**

```console
(env) foo@bar:~$/ipso_cli/> python ipso_cli.py --stored-state my_stored_state.json
```

### Using separated arguments

The CLI also accepts a list of arguments to build the equivalent to a stored state. These arguments must at least have:

- **A script**: --script, path to a pipeline/script built with IPSO Phen
- **A source**: this can be:
  - **An image**: --image, path to a source image
  - **A list of images**: --image-list, a text file containing a list of images
- **An output folder**: --output-folder, path to an output folder for the extracted data
- **A file name for the final CSV file**: --csv-file-name, a file name where the final output will be written, the path will be the output folder.

If _--image_ and _--image-list_ are both present, all images available will be processed.

**Example:**

```console
(env) foo@bar:~$/ipso_cli/> python ipso_cli.py --image my_image.tiff --script my_script.json --output-folder a_folder --csv-file-name my_csv_file_name.csv
```

### Overrides

When using a stored state, all parameters used for separate arguments can be used as overrides.

Other overrides include that can also be used as separated parameters :

- **Thread count override**: --thread-count, number of concurrent analysis. The default value is set to 1. Avoid setting this value over the available threads of your computer.
- **Overwrite**: --overwrite, overwrite existing partial analysis, set by default to false. When analyzing images, IPSO Phen writes every image's analysis result to a different partial file, this way if the analysis must be interrupted almost nothing is lost.
- **Build annotation ready CSV**: --build-annotation-csv", if true a CSV file for disease index annotation will be generated.
- **Generate series id, group plants by close timestamp**: --generate-series-id", if true each row of the final csv will be annotated to tag all photos of each plant taking in an amount of time. When every plant is captured multiple times each time -for example, multiple angles- every image corresponding to the group will have the same tag.
- **Series id delta**: --series-id-delta", Images of an item taken within minutes of time delta will have the same series id".

### Final notes

- if _--generate-series-id_ is used only one partial CSV file will be generated by group.
- Even if there's only one plant to process, partial results will be generated.

## Built With

- [OPENCV](https://pypi.org/project/opencv-python//) - Image processing library.
- [Scikit image](https://scikit-image.org/) - Image processing library.
- [Numpy](https://numpy.org/) - The fundamental package for scientific computing with Python

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## Authors

- **Felicià MAVIANE** - [tr31zh](https://github.com/tr31zh)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](<[LICENSE.md](https://github.com/tpmp-inra/ipso_cli/blob/master/LICENSE)>) file for details.
